Improve README and feature docs (#330)
Accenture/reactive-interaction-gateway: docs/features.md

---
id: features
title: Features
sidebar_label: Features
---

* [Picking up backend events and forwarding them to clients based on subscriptions](#picking-up-backend-events-and-forwarding-them-to-clients-based-on-subscriptions)
* [Forwarding client requests to backend services](#forwarding-client-requests-to-backend-services)
  * [Synchronously](#synchronously)
  * [Asynchronously - Fire&Forget](#asynchronously---fireforget)
  * [Synchronously - Asnychronous Response](#synchronously---asnychronous-response)
  * [Asynchronously - Asnychronous Response](#asynchronously---asnychronous-response)
* [Built-in Features](#built-in-features)

RIG can be used in different scenarios.

## Picking up backend events and forwarding them to clients based on subscriptions

RIG acts as a fan-out publisher of backend events. Clients can simply subscribe to RIG in order to receive these events. This makes your frontend apps reactive and eliminates the need for polling.

> Additionally clients can provide a filter during the subscription initialization and tell RIG in what type of events it is interested in. Thus, you don't have to implement this filter logic in all of your client applications, RIG takes care of it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally clients can provide filters during the subscription initialization and tell RIG in what type of events it is interested in. Those filters allow clients to tap into high-volume event streams without getting overwhelmed by unwanted events. In other words, filters enable bandwidth efficiency.
```

![fan-out-to-multiple-clients](./assets/features-fan-out-to-multiple-clients.png)

## Forwarding client requests to backend services

When client requests need to be forwarded to the backend, clients sometimes are interested in the response of the backend, and sometimes not. Especially when the client is interested in the direct response of the backend, there are a couple of options how to design that technically.

### Synchronously

If requests are being sent synchronously, RIG acts as a reverse proxy: RIG forwards the request to an HTTP endpoint of a backend service, waits for the response and sends it back to the client. It is as simple as

![client-to-backend-synchronously](./assets/features-client-to-backend-synchronously.png)

You may ask: Why shouldn't I directly talk to the backend? What benefits does RIG provide?

> RIG provides many additional features on top like session management or JWT signature verification. You don't have to implement this over and over again at the clients and backend services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
RIG provides many additional features on top like session management or JWT signature verification. You don't have to implement this over and over again at the clients and backend services. That said, it's perfectly fine to run RIG alongside an existing API management gateway, too.
```

### Asynchronously - Fire&Forget

RIG transforms a HTTP request to a message for asynchronous processing and forwards it to the backend asynchronously using either [Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org/), [NATS](https://nats.io/) or [Amazon Kinesis](https://aws.amazon.com/kinesis/).

![client-to-backend-asynchronously-fireandforget](./assets/features-client-to-backend-asynchronously-fireandforget.png)

> This enables an asynchonous communication between client-side applications and the backend. RIG acts as a middle-man handling authentication when communicating to queuing systems. Without RIG, it would be required to have a custom backend applications that handles client requests and forwarding them to Kafka, Nats or Kinesis. This additional backend app is a single source of failure, hence it would be necessary to harden it and make it highly available and reliable. WIth RIG, you don't have to take care of that - RIG is [scalable by design](https://accenture.github.io/reactive-interaction-gateway/docs/features.html#built-in-features).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This enables asynchonous communication between client-side applications and the backend. RIG acts as a bridge between its clients and the messaging system. Similar to above, the authenticity of client requests are validated using JWT signature verification. RIG effectively replaces a custom backend application that would accept client requests and forward them to Kafka, Nats or Kinesis. This additional backend app is a single point of failure, hence it would be necessary to harden it and make it highly available and reliable. With RIG, you don't have to take care of that - RIG is [scalable by design](https://accenture.github.io/reactive-interaction-gateway/docs/features.html#built-in-features).
```

### Synchronously - Asnychronous Response

RIG forwards the client request to the backend synchronously via HTTP and waits for the backend response by listening to Kafka/NATS and forwarding it to the still open HTTP connection to the frontend.

![client-to-backend-synchronously-asynchronous-response](./assets/features-client-to-backend-synchronously-asynchronous-response.png)

> This scenario can be quite useful which is described in more detail in the [Architecture section](https://accenture.github.io/reactive-interaction-gateway/docs/architecture.html#providing-a-synchronous-api-for-asynchronous-back-end-services). RIG correlates the corresponding answer using the correlation ID of the oRIGinal request, that will be forwarded to the backend and also being used in the response of the backend. With this ID, RIG can filter the appropriate message from the consuming topic.

Reviewer: > oRIGinal request

Pun intended? ;D
